CAR Mirror Spec (#2)
fission-suite/spec: car-pool/README.md

# CAR Pool

CAR Pool is a collection of specs, which taken together aim to provide a network efficient method for transmitting data from one or more sources to a single sink.

## Specs

1. [CAR Mirror](./car-mirror.md)
2. [CAR Pool](./car-pool.md)

## Appendices

* [Research](./RESEARCH.md)
* [Roadmap](./ROADMAP.md)

## Abstract

We propose developing a transport agnostic CAR-based synchronization mechanism, with the primary purpose being efficient & reliable block delivery over HTTP.

## Motivation & High-Level Description

> This proposal resolves multiple major, persistent challenges that operators have experienced as a production IPFS operator for the past several years. From discussion with others in the IPFS Operators Group, we believe the scope of this work to be an important stepping stone in the maturation of IPFS and Filecoin in production settings.

Author: It's not just us having these problems; we've heard it from from basically all of the other operators. Is it stronger also mentioning Fission specifically?

> This proposal resolves multiple major, persistent challenges that operators have experienced as a production IPFS operator for the past several years. From discussion with others in the IPFS Operators Group, we believe the scope of this work to be an important stepping stone in the maturation of IPFS and Filecoin in production settings.

Reviewer: This was more stylistic feedback.  I guess it felt awkward to me contrasting the experience of "operators" over several years with discussion with "other operators".  It felt like these were two different groups, so it felt like a relic of renaming from Fission to operators.

Further, due to the Want List behavior being session agnostic, we have observed uploads and downloads stall mid-transfer when a peer is considered idle (or when many new peers connect), evicting the node from the peer list. With CAR Sync, in both streaming and at-once delivery cases, it is well understood if the session is still open.

### HTTPS and WSS are a Mature Transports

Streaming CARs know that there is an open connection over a reliable, mature transports: HTTP, Streaming HTTP, and persistent WSS. Being able to efficiently push and fetch CARed IPLD over HTTP in particular means gaining the ability to move data over a mature, absolutely ubiquitous transport on privileged ports.

Relying on HTTP also makes TLS available everywhere, improving the security and privacy of messages. Since the proposed protocol does not depend on the public DHT (see Scope section), this provides some improvement even with public providers. The lack of dependence on the public DHT is well suited to short-lived nodes, such as browsers, GitHub Actions, and battery-sensitive devices such as mobile phones.

> It is worth highlighting that HTTP is unable to support many P2P use cases, and many client devices are not directly dialable as data providers. Those use cases will need continued dependence on WebRTC and similar. These strategies can run entirely in parallel, and are in no way mutually exclusive. A node being undialable leads to some difficulty in the designof this system, but even under these conditions, CAR protocols can be constructed that perform better than the niave case.

Author: Weird that our spell checker didn't catch `designof` and `niave` 🤨

# CAR Pool

CAR Pool is a collection of specs, which taken together aim to provide a network efficient method for transmitting data from one or more sources to a single sink.

## Specs

### CAR Mirror

* [High Level Spec](./car-mirror/SPEC.md)
* [CAR Mirror over HTTP](./car-mirror/http.md)
  
### CAR Pool

* [Spec](./car-pool/README.md) (future)

## Appendices

* [Research](./RESEARCH.md)

## Abstract

We propose developing a transport agnostic CAR-based synchronization mechanism, with the primary purpose being efficient & reliable block delivery over HTTP.

## Motivation & High-Level Description

> This proposal resolves multiple major, persistent challenges that operators (including Fission) have experienced as a production IPFS operator for the past several years. From discussion with others in the IPFS Operators Group, we believe the scope of this work to be an important stepping stone in the maturation of IPFS and Filecoin in production settings.

Reviewer: This sentence reads "... challenges that operators... have experienced as a production IPFS operator."

Here's my proposed fix.

```suggestion
This proposal resolves multiple major, persistent challenges that Fission has experienced as a production IPFS operator for the past several years. From discussion with others in the IPFS Operators Group, we believe the scope of this work to be an important stepping stone in the maturation of IPFS and Filecoin in production settings.
```

We propose extending the existing efforts to move specifically CAR files over HTTP (e.g. Filecoin point-to-point CAR, Qri’s DSync), and enable other transports such as WSS, HLS, and WebRTC. We know of several other projects in the broader ecosystem that would like to make use of this protocol, from storage providers and CDNs to decentralized social media protocols.

IPLD (and content addressing broadly) has an incredible advantage over conventional RESTful transfers: IPLD can easily deduplicate data. We strongly desire to retain this property. At Fission, our in-house file system (WNFS) is immutable-by-default. Uploading many redundant gigabytes for a small change is not practical.

### Round Trip Reduction

Bitswap is very efficient for deduplication, but suffers when synchronizing large IPLD graphs due to the large number of round trips involved. This scales specifically with the depth of the diff in the requested graph. Discovering that a node is not available only occurs after many round trips.

> Further, due to the Want List behavior being session agnostic, we have observed uploads and downloads stall mid-transfer when a peer is considered idle (or when many new peers connect), evicting the node from the peer list. With CAR Sync, in both streaming and at-once delivery cases, it is well understood if the session is still open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further, due to the Want List behavior being session agnostic, we have observed uploads and downloads stall mid-transfer when a peer is considered idle (or when many new peers connect), evicting the node from the peer list. With CAR Mirror, in both streaming and at-once delivery cases, it is well understood if the session is still open.
```

> ### HTTPS and WSS are a Mature Transports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HTTPS and WSS are Mature Transports
```
